1 (a) (i)

| x   |
|-----|
|Alice|
|Bob  |


(ii)
R $\div$ S filters out rows in R that have a appearing in S.
So in (i), we filtered out rows with a 1 or a 2;
giving: [X, Y] = {(Alice, 3), (Bob, 3)}
Furthermore, R $\div$ S only takes the columns in R that are not in S.
So we finally have X = {Alice, Bob}.

(b)
- Non-trivial FDs:    
$AB \rightarrow C$,     
$AB \rightarrow D$ (\*),     
$AB \rightarrow AC$,    
$AB \rightarrow AD$ (\*),    
$AB \rightarrow BC$,     
$AB \rightarrow BD$ (\*),     
$AB \rightarrow CD$,    
$AC \rightarrow AD$ (\*),     
$ABC \rightarrow D$,    
$ABD \rightarrow AC$,    
$ABC \rightarrow AD$    
$ABC \rightarrow CD$,    
$ABC \rightarrow ABD$    
$ABD \rightarrow CD$,    
$BC \rightarrow AB$, (\*)     
$BC \rightarrow BD$ (\*),     
$BC \rightarrow ABD$,     
$BD \rightarrow AB$,     
$BCD \rightarrow ABC$,     
$BCD \rightarrow ABD$,     
$C \rightarrow A$ (\*),     
$C \rightarrow D$ (\*),     
$C \rightarrow AD$ (\*),    
$CD \rightarrow AC$ (\*),    
$CD \rightarrow AD$ (\*),    
$D \rightarrow A$ (\*),     

- The FDs that violate BCNF (those whose LHS is not superkeys, $LHS \rightarrow attr(R)$) are marked with (\*)

(c)
*We repeatedly decompose.
Each decomposition step involves picking a FD that (i) violates BCNF (ii) also satisfies $LHS \cap RHS = \emptyset$.*

- Pick: $C \rightarrow D$ to decompose $R(A, B, C, D)$.    
This gives $R1(C,D)$ and $R2(A, B, C)$.
- Pick: $C \rightarrow A$ to decompose $R2(A, B, C)$.    
This gives $R2.1(C, A)$ and $R2.2(B)$
- BCNF decomposition:    
$\{R1(C,D), R2.1(C, A), R2.2(B)\}$


(d)
*We take the FD set and find that it is already a canonical cover.
So we can simply take each FD, $LHS \rightarrow RHS$,
and produce a relation of $R_{new}(LHS \cup RHS$)*

- Using the FDs given in the question.
- A 3NF decomposition:
$R1(A, B, C)$, $R2(C, D)$, $R3(D, A)$

2(a)

(i)
```
SELECT n1, n2, n3, COUNT(n4) AS count
FROM data
GROUP BY n4
HAVING count = 0;
```

(ii)
```
(SELECT DISTINCT n1, n2, n3, n4 from data
WHERE n4 = 0)
EXCEPT
(SELECT n1, n2, n3, n4 from data
WHERE n4 != 0);
```

(iii)
```
SELECT data0.n1 data0.n2 data0.n3
FROM
data AS data0 JOIN (data AS data1 OUTER JOIN data AS data2)
WHERE
(data1.n1 = data2.n1 AND
data1.n2 = data2.n2 AND
data1.n3 = data2.n3 AND
data1.n4 = 0 AND
data2.n4 != 0) AND
  data0.n4 = 0
  data0.id != data1.id
```

(b) A *dirty read* occurs when two transactions are read and writing to the same
row. One transaction reads after the other has written uncomitted data:
$r_1[x], w_1[x], r_2[x], w_2[x], c_1, c_2$ ($T_2$ sees not-yet-committed data of $T_1$).

- READ-UNCOMMITTED level: Dirty reads are allowed so we could have
$H = r_1[x], w_1[x], r_2[x], w_2[x], c_1, c_2$
- READ-COMMITTED level: Dirty reads are prevented. Any data read is committed the moment
it is read. An example history: $H = r_1[x], w_1[x], c_1 r_2[x], w_2[x], c_2$.
Here, because T2 tries to read $x$. This read forces T1 to commit.
- REPEATABLE-READS level: Read and write locks are held for 
the duration of the transaction. A new row may be added.
$rl_1[x] wl_1[x] r_1[x] w_1[x] ru_1[x] wu_1[x] c_1 rl_2[x] wl_2[x] r_2[x] w_2[x] ru_2[x] wu_2[x] c_2$
- SERIALIZABLE level: Again, read and write locks are held so dirty reads are prevented.
However new rows cannot be added.
